Windows 10 Installation Prerequisites.
Your first task in installing Windows 10 is choosing which
edition is relevant for your use case.
Historically, Windows has been a bit, how can I describe this,
complex, in terms of all the various editions.
My mind goes back to Windows 7, for instance, that had so many editions.
The Windows Client development team have done some
good work in trying to streamline it.
Basically, we've got Windows 10 Home edition that's targeted at the consumer,
this is not a business user, the consumer who uses laptop computers,
desktop computers, so-called two-in-one devices,
which would be like a Surface Pro tablet let's say.
There is also heavy integration between Windows 10 Home and multimedia apps,
for instance,
the ability to integrate seamlessly with the XBOX 1 or
XBOX 1x consoles for streaming media.
On the business side of the equation, there is Windows 10 Pro,
short for Professional.
This includes business features like BitLocker drive encryption,
Windows Update for Business, and Domain join.
The bottom line is although the code base is essentially the same,
these features are unlocked or locked depending upon your edition.
We're going to cover upgrade scenarios in a future module,
so here we're dealing only with a new initial installation of Windows.
Windows 10 Home is not going to have any of the business specific features.
Remote Desktop,
a lot of those cool things that we've examined in the
past are business only scenarios, and of course,
you can expect to see a price difference between the
home and pro versions for that reason.
Client Hyper-V, I guess, would be another example.
If you don't know what Windows Update for Business is,
this is a way to centralize the process of updating multiple
Windows computers and domain join refers to the Windows Client
computer's ability to interact with an Active Directory domain
managed by Windows Server.
Now there is some more business or organizational editions
available in the Windows 10 portfolio.
In business,
it's commonly going to be a question of do you need the
pro edition or the enterprise edition.
The enterprise edition has its own side of complexities.
There are two versions, they're called stock keeping units or SKUs,
E3 and E5, each has their own set of features,
E5 has all of the E3 features plus some additional ones like
Windows Defender advanced threat protection,
Device Guard, Credential Guard.
The specifics of what those features are beyond our scope,
suffice it to say,
these are very advanced threat intelligence and security tools that are
used for businesses that have really high stakes intellectual property
where you want to control these desktop computers strictly to avoid stuff
like data leakage and malware infection.
Of course, everybody wants those goals, but in a business,
it becomes more important.
I think you would agree.
Now the reason why I put SaaS in parentheses,
that stands for Software as a Service,
is that enterprise edition historically isn't bought,
in fact, you can't buy it in a store,
you have to work through a Microsoft reseller or you have to
work with Microsoft themselves to buy this.
And it's sold by a subscription basis or a volume license key basis.
You're probably accustomed to purchasing single use software or
single user licensed software where you pay a price for a
single unlock key for a single installation of a single product
on say a single computer.
Well with enterprise,
you have to deploy dozens or hundreds or thousands of operating systems,
you're going to want to look for a more streamlined
way to take care of activation.
All of that is part of the enterprise SKU.
Now like I said,
there is a price difference and there is a licensing
difference between pro and enterprise.
That's something that the business leaders need to determine
in the light of how many users you have,
how big your organization is,
and what your emphasis is on centralized management and security.
Windows 10 Education is basically Windows 10 Enterprise with a different
licensing and pricing scheme for educational institutions.
You go to a university, for instance,
you may get a deal on Windows 10 and that helps the university because they use,
in this case,
they would be using Active Directory and Centralized Management
tools to deliver updates and help you protect your computer as it
interacts with university resources.
There is Windows 10 Pro Education which is a less expensive way to go
and this feature set is analogous to Windows 10 Pro.
Now there is a couple other highly specialized Windows 10 editions,
one is the so-called Internet of Things or IoT edition.
The IoT versions are super specialized, they're meant for the consumer side,
the maker community if you've ever used the raspberry pie,
the $35-$45 computer, the little tiny little computer,
and also for businesses that do IoT,
IoT refers to network capable devices in business and in home.
It could be a security camera, it could be a refrigerator at your home,
anything that has some computing power in it and the potential to
connect to the internet is technically IoT.
Well,
there is a very small compact version of Windows 10 intended for those environments.